# Detect-Suicide-Risk-factors-using-ML-and-Deep-Learing

I used Data Mining, Machine Learning and Deep Learning methodologies in my project to detect users’ mental states and suicidal risk factors.

In recent days suicide and self-harm become a very common and concerning issue, as a result of suicide every year we lost around six thousands of valuable life in the UK. This number made suicide one of the major causes of death in the UK. Depression is one of the main reasons for suicide according to psychologists and researchers. Now young people, as well as aged people use social media for communication and to overcome their depression. The advancement of the internet and smartphones has made our life easy and comfortable. It has also made social media the most usable medium of communication and medium of expression. Nowadays, people tweets everything on Twitter, and post almost every moment of their life on Facebook, Instagram and other social media platforms following the trend, suddenly suicidal thoughts that are originated and expressed on these platforms have become the trend and worst of all many of us are unaware of the origin of the problem. But it also gives us the opportunity, with the use of Data Mining and Machine Learning methodologies can analyze risk group people’s social media activity and posts, this opens the door to potential future implementations as well. Before starting this project I hypothesised that “from Social media activities and public data one can predict an individual user’s mental state and predict self-harm possibilities using data mining and data analysis techniques like machine learning algorithms and deep learning.” To verify my thoughts and get answers to my research questions, I used Data Mining, Machine Learning and Deep Learning methodologies in my project to detect users’ mental states and suicidal risk factors. Throughout the project, I analysed the data that I collected from Twitter with different Machine learning and Deep Learning methods. After a series of training and testing the data, I was able to identify the risk group of people and suicide chances through their tweets.
